An Indian from Mumbai, now live and work in Malaysia.  In the mean time have travelled extensively within Malaysia and also Singapore, Thailand, Japan and Hong Kong.  I can safely say that Malaysia is the best tourist destination in terms of Value for Money.  Thailand would come next.  The others - just pure hype especially Singapore(except Singapore Zoo which is the only thing worth seeing there)

For an Indian, possibly the costliest component to Malaysia would be the travel.  However, surprisingly Indians who visit Malaysia visit only KL and Genting.  The real places to visit in Malaysia are actually Melaka(1 day), Penang and Langkawi(4 days) and Redang Islands(2 night 3 days).  Travel within Malaysia is very cheap, so is food(about Rs. 50 per meal per person for budget travellers)  and so is acco(for about Rs. 2000 or less, you can get a fantastic hotel anywhere in Malaysia for a night for two - try to get one in India for the same price!)

Kuala Lumpur is a must visit just to see the Petronas Twin Towers, the Aquaria(much much better than Singapore) and shopping at Petaling street for fake designer brands -still worth it(1 Day is enough).  The religiously inclined can visit Batu Caves(About Rs. 26 per person by bus from KL)(then you need two days or else you will be tired) a beautiful temple cave in a hill of Ayappa

Genting is worth a visit not for the place, but for the cable ride.  The cable ride is simply awesome.  The bus+cable ride from KL to Genting Highlands is worth it and it costs just about Rs. 100 per person(yes bus+ cable) one way.  At Genting the only possible attraction is the Casino.  If you are not a gambler, just loiter about there for about 2-3 hours have lunch and come back.  The other attraction i.e. the Indoor and Outdoor Theme park is good, but for those who have seen Esselworld in Mumbai, this is just a fraction.  Genting would recommend to go in the morning and come back in the

Melaka is a beautiful historical city just about 2 hours ride from Kuala Lumpur.  The city is like Panjim, beautiful architechture, nice museums and quaint streets and fantastic local food. Can go in morning and return in the evening to Kuala Lumpur(Bus ride about Rs. 100 per person one way)

Penang and Langkawi are beautiful islands, that simply shouldn't be missed on a trip to Malaysia.  It is like visiting India and not seeing the Taj and most tourists don't realise this.   There is enough on the web about these two places where you can just relax and enjoy nature, the sea and a good foot massage.  Need about 4 days(2 each).  If you book early on Air Asia via net, you can get tickets as cheap as Rs. 2000(or less) per person per trip from KL to Penang, then ferry to Langkawi and return from Langkawi by flight to KL.

Possibly the most beautiful place in Malaysia is Redang Islands where you can do snorkelling and diving.  A bit expensive because it is a bit out of the way on the East Coast of Malaysia and you need to fly to Terranganu from KL, but believe me it is absolutely worth it and this is one experience you can't have in India with crystal clear waters, corals and fishes to see. From KL including flight and all expenses a trip would cost about Rs. 8000 per person including flight fare(Air Asia), stay, food and snorkelling trips.

A trip to Malaysia would be about 10-12 days to cover all the above destinations, then you would have seen Malaysia in full.  For Short trips cover KL, Genting and Melacca in 3 days by remaining stationed in Kuala Lumpur.  Take MH 195 night flight reach KL in morning.  Do KL that day, go to Genting the next day and come back and then go to Melacca the third day.   However if you are doing Casino and the outdoor / indoor theme parks in Genting, then best to stay over at Genting for one more day.

The ideal trip to Malaysia would be KL(1 day)-Genting(1 day)-Melacca(1 day) - Penang+Langakawi(4 days)= 7-8 days.  All this can be covered in a budget of about Rs. 30, 000 per person i.e. travel within Malaysia, food and accomodation.

Would recommend to book everything on the internet and not go through travel agents etc.
