To be fair, the film version of “The Help” was working from deeply flawed source material. The book, by Kathryn Stockett, was weak in both word and deed — rife with clichés, melodrama and a soupcon of racial uplift through the lens of a white woman.

The book has its moments, and is certainly not short on plot. But nothing can overcome the very bad writing.

The way the book blithely addresses the complex racial climate of Jackson, Miss., in the 1960s, where the novel is set, is so infuriating as to completely overshadow what few merits it possesses. (Photo: Dreamworks)

Worst of all, there's an ignorance of the severity of Jim Crow laws and how those laws would have prevented a great deal of the novel from actually taking place. And then there’s also the idea that a young white girl just out of college would be the one to help “the help” find their voices and articulate their lives. The book ends up being insulting to everyone.

The movie is even more infuriating in part due to the movie's overall competence. Everything looks good. Tate Taylor's directing is competent. The actors acquit themselves formidably. There is no doubt that everyone involved in the production approached their duties with sincere commitment.

On the big screen, however, the glaring offenses from the book are displayed in high definition, 10 feet high. The misappropriation of black vernacular grates, particularly when Aibileen, one of the help, repeatedly tells her young white charge, You is smart. You is kind. You is important.

At one point, Minny rhapsodizes about fried chicken and the solace of its preparation. Another maid simply drops dead from a broken heart when she is fired by her white family.

The Help is emotionally manipulative, taking every opportunity to cut the viewer's heart wide open with painfully depicted scenes of racial segregation and the petty humiliations African-Americans faced during that era.

At the screening I attended, everyone was openly sobbing throughout because the movie was so relentless in its desire to wring tears out of every single overwrought moment.

I was convinced the movie was satirical or set in a science fiction universe.

And to see an actor as exquisite as Viola Davis offered nothing better by today's writers than the role of a maid reflects how few choices black actors have.

Historically, a role as the maid is one of the few filmic roles available to black women. It's galling that Hattie McDaniel won the Oscar for playing a maid in "Gone With the Wind" in 1939 and Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer are likely to win Oscars (deservedly) for playing maids in 2012. (Photo: McDaniel w/ Vivien Leigh, "Gone with the Wind" / Warner Bros.)

The movie is a painful reminder that little has changed in 73 years. When extremely talented actors are only allowed to showcase their talent in one kind of role, and when a movie like "The Help" is nominated for Best Picture, without irony, the elephant hulks in the middle of the room.
